Post for Middlewares in Express JS (#26)
iamshadmirza/TheNextBigWriter: node/expressjs/middlewares-in-express-js.md

## Middlewares in Express JS

> It's been a long time that NODE JS has become a part of JS Ecosystem. Any JS developer Front End or Full Stack would be familiar with Node JS. Any one who has worked on Node would have also worked with Express JS.

Reviewer: Node.js would be better

> It's been a long time that NODE JS has become a part of JS Ecosystem. Any JS developer Front End or Full Stack would be familiar with Node JS. Any one who has worked on Node would have also worked with Express JS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It has been a long time since Node.js was released. It has now become an integral part of the JS ecosystem. Any JS developer, be it Frontend or Fullstack would probably be familiar with Node.js. Anyone who has worked on Node would have also worked with Express JS.
```

> So, Express JS is nothing but a framework to help organize your web application into an MVC architecture on the server side. It basically helps you manage everything from routes to handling requests and views for your web application.

Reviewer: I don't think express.js follows MVC architecture as such. It's a very less opinionated lib. Can you fact check this. If their docs says MVC anywhere.

Author: It says something like MVC Style Controllers. 
https://expressjs.com/en/starter/faq.html.

Reviewer: so it's saying that express doesn't have preference of its own. You can choose whatever architecture you want and they have given examples of three different architectures inlcuding MVC

### What are Middlewares

> A middleware is just a function which takes request(req), response(res) and the next middleware function(next) as the arguments. These are the function which helps to intercept the incoming request, perform a specific task and pass the execution to next middleware or route handler or even they can end the request-response cycle by returning a response.

Reviewer: adding a usecase would be better. Like say auth middleware. Tell the user why they should read further

![what are middleware](https://qph.fs.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-78c4c87d1e7f41795801b4a49b721d6f)

### How Middleware Works

> Any request on the Node Server will be accessed by all the middlewares in the request-response cycle in a sequential order. The line of order in which the middlewares are defined matters a lot.You can take it as that the Output of first middleware is Input of the second middleware for request and response object. A middleware take a 3rd argument which is the next middleware or the route function. If your middleware doesn't returns a response it should call next() to pass the control to the next middleware function otherwise the request will always be hanging in the application.

Reviewer: Instead of capitalizing words like Output, you should keep them lowercase but make them bold instead **output**

> ![how middleware works](https://miro.medium.com/max/2284/1*fbe04fcynkBuLo_CADxxHQ.png)

Reviewer: this link didn't open an image. Also if you're using someone else's image then due add credits

Author: I have updated the link. Please check if it opens now. Also, added the source for images

![app level middleware](https://res.cloudinary.com/dyyr6kwla/image/upload/v1585390499/app_nzdavx.svg)

###### Router Level Middleware

A middleware which is bound to an instance of express.Router(). It works similar to the application level middleware. Generally, it comes in use if you want to divide your main application routes to separate modules and use middlewares.

![router level middleware](https://res.cloudinary.com/dyyr6kwla/image/upload/v1585391535/router_eofwlb.svg)

###### Built In Middleware

Express JS itself provides multiple built-In middlewares such as express.json, express.static etc. These can be used based on the use case in the application. Such as a web app will need express.static to server all the static resources for the web-app.

The entire list of built-in can be found here: <https://github.com/senchalabs/connect#middleware>

![Built In Middlewarte](https://res.cloudinary.com/dyyr6kwla/image/upload/v1585393645/builtIn_pc8rwv.svg)

> ###### Error Handling Middleware

Reviewer: ```suggestion
###### Error Handling in Middlewares
```
